#summary Installing Oddbook-0.1
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

Oddbook-0.1 is experimental. Do not use this software unless you know enough PHP and MySQL to get out of any trouble you may encounter.


= Installation =

<ol>
<li>Extract the contents of the zip file onto your server.</li>
<li>Prepare an empty database in MySQL.</li>
<li>In the oddbook files, locate */includes/ob_vars.inc* and */admin/includes/ob_vars.inc*.</li>
<li>In these files, locate the text block below and insert your database information:
<code>
# Fill in the variables with the values specific to
# your system below.

$dbhost = "www.example.com";
$dbuser = "tinkerbell";
$dbpass = "clapclapclap";
$dbname = "myoddbookdb";
</code>
<li>In the file */schema_setup.php*, input each category you would like the booklist to keep track of.  This list can be added to through MySQL, but Oddbook's admin interface does not provide a way to change these later.
<code>
echo "Populating categories...\n";

# Change these to fit your own tastes

mysql_query("INSERT INTO category SET cat_name = 'fiction'");
mysql_query("INSERT INTO category SET cat_name = 'science fiction'");
mysql_query("INSERT INTO category SET cat_name = 'undersea adventure'");
mysql_query("INSERT INTO category SET cat_name = 'ephemera'");
mysql_query("INSERT INTO category SET cat_name = 'stuff with words'");
</code></li>
<li>Also in the */schema_setup.php* file, input the username and password you want to use with the Oddbook admin interface:
<code>
echo "Setting up admin user...\n";

mysql_query("INSERT INTO users VALUES (
		'tinkerbell', 
		PASSWORD('clapclapclap')
		)");
</code></li>
<li>Run the install script by visiting your website wherever Oddbook is installed, (ex. http://www.example.com/oddbook/schema_setup.php).  Running this script multiple times will have no effect once the tables are initially created.</li>
<li>Oddbook is now ready to use!  Visit your administration page (ex. http://www.example.com/oddbook/admin/index.php) and log in to start populating your book list.